>>EMERY SMITH: Today
on "Cosmic Disclosure,"
we are with Richard Doty,
a retired Special Agent,
who served in the
Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with
UFO-ET-related intelligence.
Today, we speak about
the real alien hunters.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>>RICHARD DOTY:
Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>>EMERY: What does the Special
Projects, PJ Branch, of AFOSI
do, and what is their mission?
>>DOTY: We call it PJs
within the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
>>EMERY: I'm assuming,
not PR rescue.
>>DOTY: No, it's not PR rescue.
It's Special Projects.
It's a separate branch
within the Air Force
Office of Special Investigations
that implements and directs
policies and
procedures, relating
to compartmented
special access programs,
and that means anything
that's highly classified.
And most of it pertains to
research and development
projects, but it also
can contain operations
in the counterintelligence,
counterespionage,
and even espionage areas.
>>EMERY: So how do they support
the special access programs
in the United States Air Force?
>>DOTY: We conduct
investigations,
and we also conduct
disinformation or deception
operations to protect
highly sensitive operations
in the area of research
and development.
For instance,
reverse engineering
of some extraterrestrial device.
We give it to a contractor
to try to perfect
or research it to determine
whether we can copy it,
and that operation
has to be protected
from outside sources,
foreign intelligence,
foreign intelligence
influence, or even espionage.
And so, we implement
policies and procedures
that can protect
those special access
programs, such as deceptions,
deception operations, which you
would call disinformation
or misinformation
operations to
throw off the enemy
or throw off the Russians, who
would be our number one enemy.
>>EMERY: So how
does the PJ branch
support the advanced
research and development
programs of the US Air Force?
>>DOTY: The Air Force Office of
Special Investigations Special
Projects Branch supports DARPA
and all DARPA operations.
In fact, we have OSI agents,
out-of-the-special projects
branch or the PJ branch assigned
directly to DARPA projects.
And those agents,
sometimes teams of agents--
depending on the
type of operations--
and these teams
of agents support
that particular project.
Reverse engineering
or development
of some kind of a new aircraft
or a new drone system.
But a lot of the information
that the contractors get
is strictly controlled by the
OSI projects, Special Projects
Branch, meaning
that it's piecemeal
that the information is
piecemeal to the contractor
as they need it.
As they need the information,
it's given to them.
Now, that doesn't always
work in some areas,
as we were discussing earlier,
because the contractor,
themselves, they develop--
they're working with these
reverse engineering projects,
this alien artifact, this
box, this widget that
came from some
extraterrestrial race.
And they're delving into it, and
they're learning more and more
about it.
They learn that this
box opens this box.
It opens this box.
None of that
information is going
to be shared with the PJ Branch
because they're developing it
on their own, and
they're classifying it
under Department of Defense
Industrial Security Programs,
which they're supposed to.
But they don't always
share that information,
and that's the dilemma
that we have now.
>>EMERY: And who's that up
to that it's not shared.
Why aren't they sharing it?
>>DOTY: Well, there's a lot
of inequities in the law
and within the Department of
Defense Industrial Security
Program.
The contractors
have to safeguard
all the classified
information, most of it.
For instance, a
contractor gets an item.
We'll call it a widget.
That came from an
extraterrestrial race.
And the government
gives it to them.
DARPA gives it to
them, says, OK, we
got this from this
extraterrestrial race.
We need to reverse engineer it.
So you guys need to
figure out how we do that.
Simple as that.
So they do it.
And along with that, they're
given manuals or information
that is all classified,
that the government knows.
Now, once the contractor
gets that information,
they start doing their job, but
they're developing information
as they're trying to
reverse engineer it.
As my example was, this
box, now it opens this box,
and opens this box.
Now, we got three widgets
instead of one widget.
And now, we know that
this widget controls this.
And now, all that information
is still classified.
But it's controlled
by the contractor.
It's classification
that the contractor has,
and they don't
necessarily want to share
that with anybody else.
Why?
Because DARPA, if they got that
information-- for instance,
you're contractor A. You're
working on this widget,
and you develop all this
information about this widget.
Now, you this turn
this over to DARPA.
DARPA might say, it's too
much for one contractor.
We have to share it with this
other contractor, contractor B.
So now, we start sharing
it with contractor B. Now,
contractor A just lost
a lot of information,
and they might even have
lost another contract.
So if the contractor A keeps
all this stuff and, at the end,
develop something
or reverse engineers
this particular
widget, now, they're
the prime contractor,
called the prime contractor
of any future
reverse engineering.
And that's what happens within
the contractor community.
>>EMERY: And who is
watching the contractors?
Who's in charge of that?
I mean, is it possible
that, sometimes, things
do slip out to overseas,
to other organizations
or countries?
>>DOTY: That's the job of
the PJ, Special Projects.
We're supposed to develop
policies and procedures
to protect that special
compartmented information
that that contractor
is working on.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: Here's the problem.
This OSI agent that specially
trained for special projects,
they go through the
intelligence operations course.
They go to classified
other courses.
But most of them are engineers,
and they're not scientists.
They're college graduates.
They might have a degree in
political science, like I did.
So all they understand is
the security implications
and the policies and procedures
that they're supposed
to use to protect this project.
But they don't understand
the engineering
or the scientific values.
So can they be duped
by the contractors?
Absolutely.
Now, as your question
ask, who's responsible?
>>EMERY: Yeah, who's
the responsible entity?
>>DOTY: DARPA.
DARPA's responsible.
And the project security
officer is working
for OSI but through DARPA.
So everything should
be going back to DARPA.
Now, DARPA, itself, OSI agents
assigned at a managerial level.
So that particular
OSI agents assign
as a security project manager
is reporting to a supervisor.
>>EMERY: So he oversees
each project or per project.
>>DOTY: Yes, each project.
But if you're one
contractor, you
could have five
different projects.
Now, that one OSI agent could
be managing all those five
projects.
>>EMERY: Oh, I see.
>>DOTY: And I've been in a
situation, out of the area 51,
that it would be impossible
for me to monitor
every single thing that these
contractors are doing out
there.
>>EMERY: Are you
allowed on that project?
>>DOTY: Well, this
particular project
was reverse engineering
a propulsion system.
The propulsion system,
they couldn't get to work.
However, they got
the craft to work,
so they used another propulsion
system, one of ours--
we had developed a nuclear
propulsion system--
and put on this ET craft
and tried to fly it.
And that's one of
the projects that I'd
been a project manager for.
And it didn't work.
I mean, it got off the
ground, but it didn't actually
function the way
they want it to.
Eventually, we were able to
reverse engineer, at least,
half of what the ET propulsion
system was and placed in the ET
craft, and they got it to fly.
>>EMERY: Could you explain
to the audience the amount
of people and--
those projects are split up
just for that one project.
I mean, what are we
talking about here?
How many different
contractors involved?
>>DOTY: Well, that's where
the problem develops.
Because the more
people that knows
about this particular
project, the more chance of it
getting out into the public.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: And I'll
give you an example.
A highly classified project
pertaining to a communications
device that we had, an
alien communications device,
they were able to
communicate long distances
with, from one planet to
another, or from Earth
to their planet.
And we were trying to
figure out how it worked.
We were in a very,
very, very early stages.
And there was a number
of contractors involved.
And there's Tektronix,
Motorola, many others.
So there was, I think, seven
or eight different contractors
involved in this.
So now, you're talking
60, or 70, or 80 people.
But going back a
little bit, we had
a fantastic counterintelligence
built up around Area 51.
In fact, believe it or not,
every single prostitute
that was in Nye County
and in Esmeralda County
were on the
government's payroll.
I'm meaning that we wanted to
know every military person that
went in to be serviced
by them, and we want
to know what they were told.
And lo and behold, we had.
One of our assets or one
of the ladies of the night
call us and say, we just
had this guy come in here,
and he's talking
about some kind of ray
that they could shoot
up to another planet
and send all these
messages on it.
Now, that bit of information
is highly classified,
so we had to go out and find
out who this person was and then
track that person down.
Now, we got an espionage
investigation going on.
And we find the person,
and we confront the person.
And the person's trying
to build up his status
with this lady of the night.
He was a regular there.
>>EMERY: By the way, I
work with ray guns, ma'am.
>>DOTY: Right.
Exactly.
And so, his prestige,
so to speak.
Well, number one,
he was a contractor.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: He was fired, obviously.
A prime contractor.
He was fired.
We were able to shut
her down by saying,
every bit of information
he gave you is baloney.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: And she said,
I've figured that.
People come in here and boast
about doing this and that.
OK, all right.
Now, we got to
get him shut down.
And that information never
did get out anywhere.
And that's just
one example of what
we do as Special Projects
to protect a special access
program.
>>EMERY: So what are the
most secret investigations
that the PJ Branch performs?
>>DOTY: The most
secret investigations
are UFO, UAP investigations.
Incidents that happen
that we can't understand
or we can't explain,
such as a landing that
occurred at some
particular place
near a military installation,
involving military people.
And the ETs wanted
specific information
from that military person.
Now, that would be somewhat
of a counterintelligence
or maybe even a counter
espionage investigations.
But it's pretty hard to run one
of those cases against an ET
race that flies away.
We can't go in interview them
or go and do any background
investigation on them.
So then, we have
to concentrate on--
>>EMERY: The individual.
>>DOTY: --the individual that--
>>EMERY: Why did they
specifically pick
that individual?
He was in the right
place at the right time?
Obviously, there's
something, where
they wanted this to happen
right outside the base.
>>DOTY: Well, a lot of
times, they pick the person
because he's military.
And the ETs want to
know what's going on.
They see us flying.
They see us flying crafts.
They probably have the most
advanced reconnaissance system
that any entity
could have on Earth.
>>EMERY: Why choose a military
police or security police
officer, people probably
not briefed on the stuff
that we know about.
Why choose them?
>>DOTY: Well, maybe
a stepping stone.
It's hard for us to get
inside of an ETs mind.
We don't know
anything about the ET.
We don't know how they think.
We don't know how
they can react,
or personalities, or
anything like that.
So to try to rationalize
what their behavior would
be, where we could with a
KGB agent or a GRU agent,
wherer we can rationalize.
We have a lot of
data about them.
We can look in a database and
know exactly how they function.
But an ET race coming here and
asking this particular security
policeman-- for instance,
the Rendlesham Forest
incident or the Ellsworth
Air Force base incident,
or the Edwards Air Force base,
or the Loring Air Force base
incident-- why they typically
picked that security policeman,
and why they ask
him these questions
or asked them to do
something for them,
we can't understand that.
>>EMERY: Were you briefed
on what took place there.
Do you know what
those questions were?
>>DOTY: Yeah, with Loring
Air Force base incident,
a security policeman's walking a
perimeter in the weapon storage
area.
And the WSA, of course, is
nuclear weapon storage area.
The Air Force doesn't identify
it as a nuclear weapon storage
area.
And this security policeman
is walking guard duty.
And he sees his craft land.
He goes up and tries
to challenge it,
thinking it's a
helicopter first.
Because it landed in
a little hilly area,
northwest of the weapons storage
area at Loring Air Force base.
And he radioed in that
it was a helicopter.
And they said, no, there's
no helicopters in the area.
It can't be a helicopter.
So as he walked up, he
sees these two entities
walking towards him, and
these entities were not human.
And he described him as
large helmets and long arms.
And one of them is carrying
some kind of an object, which
he thought was a weapon.
And so, he challenged
them with his M-16.
And he kept challenging.
They kept walking, and
walking, and walking up to him.
And then, next thing he
know, his weapon is taken out
of his hands, floated--
he says, floated away from him.
Now, he does have, at
sidearm, a 38 caliber handgun.
So he went to reach for the
handgun, but it's not there.
That went with the M-16.
Now, he is disarmed.
Now, he doesn't know what to do.
He's a 19-year-old airman.
>>EMERY: Does his
radio still work?
Is he communicating this?
>>DOTY: He's trying, but
there's so many things happening
at once, that he's
thinking, now,
do I have to fight these things?
I mean, they're coming at him.
He doesn't have any weapons.
And the next thing he
knows, they're up to him,
and they carry him away.
And he doesn't have any
controls of his body.
He can't move his arms.
He can't talk.
He's trying to shout for another
security guard at some distance
away.
That security guard did see
some of this, all of it.
And then, there's missing time.
But during this missing
time, he wakes up in this,
he says, a ball.
He's trying to push out of
it, and all he does is--
there's a solid
fixture all around him.
He can't move.
He can breathe fine.
He's thinking.
He thought he fell
into something.
But then, he starts realizing
what had happened earlier.
And next thing he knows, a voice
comes to him, kept telling him,
you're not being harmed.
We're not going to harm you.
We just need this information.
How many nuclear weapons
are in that storage area?
>>EMERY: Oh, my.
>>DOTY: Now, this
voice is as clear
as he says, as clear as if
somebody standing in front
of him, asking these questions.
Now, that particular
question would be classified.
The number of nuclear weapons
inside that nuclear weapon
storage is classified.
It's classified,
secret, restricted data.
>>EMERY: He wouldn't
even know, probably.
>>DOTY: Yeah, exactly.
He probably wouldn't know.
He knows how many
structures there are,
but he doesn't know how
many weapons in there.
He never answers.
This question keeps going over
and over and over in his mind.
And he's hearing it.
He keeps looking around,
trying to find out
who's asking this question,
but he can't see anything.
And he starts kicking.
And when he's kicking, his
feet breaks through something.
So now, he realizes he can get
out of whatever he's sitting in
and crawl out of that.
Well, he can't get
out of the seat.
His feet is moving, but he
can't get out of the seat.
He starts panicking, and then
that voice kept assuring him,
you're not being harmed.
The voice keeps asking him.
And then, finally, he responds,
I don't know how many.
I don't know.
I'm a security guard on
the outside of the area.
I don't know how
many nuclear weapons.
There's 40 or whatever, he said.
I can't remember now.
40, 46 bunkers.
That's all I know.
And next thing he
know, he says, it's
like something dematerializes.
And he's on the ground,
along the perimeter fence.
And his M-16 is
down on the ground,
and his handgun is over here.
And he also had an Alice pack
on, with some cantina thing.
That, somehow--
he don't remember
how that was taken out,
but that's on the ground.
He's sitting on the ground, and
he and his flight commander,
flight chief is standing over
him, asking him questions.
And he stands up, and
he doesn't understand.
His mind is in a
maze, he calls it.
Not a daze, but a maze.
There's so many things
happening in his mind.
And eventually, they all leave.
And then, he looks at his
flight sergeant and says,
I don't know what
just happened to me.
He says, well, they are going to
take you to the base hospital.
And that's all that the
flight chief told him.
So he got in his back of the
old boxed ambulance, taken
to the hospital.
>>EMERY: What year was this?
>>DOTY: This is in 1970.
>>EMERY: '70, OK.
>>DOTY: And he goes
to the hospital.
A doctor comes in, and the
doctor seems to know something.
He says, I understand you
had this horrible ordeal.
And we just want to, first of
all, check you for radiation.
So they checked him
off for radiation.
And they said, we have to
scrape under your fingernails.
And he did all that.
And he said, we want you
to take a urine test,
and they did all that stuff.
And he's laying
it on this table.
And then, a voice
comes into his head.
Do not repeat what we asked you.
So now, he thinks
he's going to have
to go through this
whole thing over again.
He panics.
He jumps off the table.
There's a Air Force
medic in there.
And he says, no, no, no,
no, get back on the table.
You'll be all right.
And he says, this voice, he
keeps talking in my head.
OK, OK, we'll take care of it.
They start an IV on
him, and then, I guess,
they sedated him, and he
ended up in the hospital.
And then they transferred him
from Loring Air Force base
to Otis Air Force
base in Massachusetts,
a hospital there.
A bigger hospital.
And he was in a
hospital for days
without anybody
asking any questions.
And eventually, two
OSI agents came,
dressed in suits, identified
themselves as OSI agents,
and said, we're going to take
you someplace to talk to you.
We can't talk to you here.
So he still had his Air Force
pajamas on, and medical gear,
and a house coat.
And they put him in a vehicle.
They took him to the location.
They put him in a
room, and they start
asking him all these questions.
And he answered every
one of the questions.
He said, what's so ironic
is these OSI agents knew
what these questions were
that they were asking.
>>EMERY: So it
happened before, maybe?
>>DOTY: And finally--
Exactly.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: And finally,
at the end, he
says, how come all this stuff?
Were you out there?
And they said, you're not the
only one that experienced this.
The same question has been
asked over and over again.
And that was it.
Now, there's really
no follow-up.
He had an early discharge,
and he went on to college.
And now, he's still alive, and
he spoke at a UFO convention
some years ago, and didn't
go into a lot of details.
The big question people ask
him is, have they come back?
>>EMERY: Right.
Are you still hearing the voice?
>>DOTY: Are you still
hearing the voices?
>>EMERY: Are you
still connected?
>>DOTY: He says, I'm
still connected to them,
but they're not asking
me any questions
because I'm not in a position to
answer what they want to know.
And of course, our question,
the government's question,
my question as an
OSI agent is, why
would these
extraterrestrials want
to know how many nuclear weapons
we had in this storage area?
If they're
extraterrestrial race,
and they can travel hundreds
of thousands of light years,
can't they count them?
Can't they go in
there and count them?
Or can't they disarm
them, which, of course,
there's incidents
of that happening.
>>EMERY: Or was
it another country
that had the ability
to, maybe, seem
to be an extraterrestrial race,
trying to find out information.
>>DOTY: That's very
highly possible.
And of course, they did a lot
of investigations in that.
They thought, well,
was this mask?
Was this really the Soviets?
Did they bring something
in from Canada?
Because Loring Air Force
base is a few miles
from the Canadian border.
And maybe, the
Soviets had a base
inside Canada, secret base,
or something to that effect.
But I think they worked
with security service
and just dismissed
that information.
>>EMERY: The US Congress
has been working with
or briefed by a
very small group.
What is that group called,
and what's their role?
>>DOTY: It's called
Advance Working Group 6,
and it's still
highly classified.
So I can't go into
great details,
but it's a working group.
It's codenamed
Cobra, and Cobra just
stood for analyzing
the information
that they're receiving.
And they're working closely with
congressional staff members,
both on the Senate
side and the House side
to release information.
And so far, there's been a
lot of information released.
I believe there were eight
different propulsion systems
that we have gotten from
extraterrestrial races.
That is common knowledge
to scientists out there.
In fact, there are
scientists out there
that are not aligned or
connected to the program that's
really talking about it.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: I mean, we
know that there's
one particular one that
sends out an email thread
now and then, or a
lot, which details
a lot of these programs.
And these propulsion systems
are being tested at Area 51
in Tonopah.
And they're being
tested on our crafts
that we manufactured or
maybe even some ET crafts.
I'm not sure of that.
And they're being
tested only there.
And so, here's the problem.
People are seeing
this propulsion system
other places other than Area 51,
or Tonopah, or the Nellis Test
and Training Range.
So what are they seeing there?
They're actually seeing
ETs flying these things
and not us not testing it.
Because we're only on the test
and training range doing this.
And there's been--
I know Richard Dolan did a whole
story about these and about
where they were being tested.
And this stuff is
being leaked out.
>>EMERY: It is public
information now, though.
>>DOTY: It's public
information now
because it's all in the public.
And these projects, these
different ion propulsion
systems, the nuclear propulsion
system, this kaesong propulsion
system, and these others--
I'm not a scientist,
and so I can't explain
exactly what these things are.
But these are all things
that we got over the years,
and some go goes back to
the 1947 Roswell crash
and the craft that we--
the two crafts, the
147 and one we found,
of course, Mason 49,
same identical crafts.
We know what type of
propulsion system.
Of course, we got a
little bit of help
from Ebe out of
the crash of 1947,
who tried to explain to us.
But the problem
there, of course,
is we have to understand
the ET science,
and they have to understand us.
And we can't compare
our technology with them
because we don't
understand their science.
And that's just a dilemma.
But that's where we are right
now with these propulsion
systems.
>>EMERY: Rick,
what's the takeaway
of this from your perspective?
>>DOTY: My perspective is
that we, the United States
government, has,
in our possession,
extraterrestrial technology.
And we're trying to
advance that technology,
and we're trying to reverse
engineer that technology.
And we have a lot of
people working on it.
Now, we have to separate
one thing from on the other.
We want to separate disclosure
from information pertaining
to technology that we
don't want to disclose,
and that will be the dilemma
during this disclosure process.
>>EMERY: Rick,
fascinating intel.
Thank you so much for
being on the show.
>>DOTY: It's been
my pleasure, Emery.
>>EMERY: I'm Emery Smith, and
this is "Cosmic Disclosure."
Until next time.